---
title: "CWE -    CWE-266: Incorrect Privilege Assignment (4.19.1)"
source: "https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/266.html"
author:
published:
created: 2026-04-15
description: "Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) is a list of software weaknesses."
tags:
  - "clippings"
---
<table width="100%"><tbody><tr><td rowspan="2"></td><td></td><td align="center" rowspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td width="100%"><h2>CWE-266: Incorrect Privilege Assignment</h2><div><p>Weakness ID: 266</p><a href="#Vulnerability_Mapping_Notes_266">Vulnerability Mapping</a>: ALLOWED This CWE ID may be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities<br>Abstraction: Base Base - a weakness that is still mostly independent of a resource or technology, but with sufficient details to provide specific methods for detection and prevention. Base level weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 2 or 3 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, technology, language, and resource.</div><p>View customized information:</p>For users who are interested in more notional aspects of a weakness. Example: educators, technical writers, and project/program managers. For users who are concerned with the practical application and details about the nature of a weakness and how to prevent it from happening. Example: tool developers, security researchers, pen-testers, incident response analysts. For users who are mapping an issue to CWE/CAPEC IDs, i.e., finding the most appropriate CWE for a specific issue (e.g., a CVE record). Example: tool developers, security researchers. For users who wish to see all available information for the CWE/CAPEC entry. For users who want to customize what details are displayed.<p>Description</p><p>A product incorrectly assigns a privilege to a particular actor, creating an unintended sphere of control for that actor.</p><p>Common Consequences</p><div>This table specifies different individual consequences associated with the weakness. The Scope identifies the application security area that is violated, while the Impact describes the negative technical impact that arises if an adversary succeeds in exploiting this weakness. The Likelihood provides information about how likely the specific consequence is expected to be seen relative to the other consequences in the list. For example, there may be high likelihood that a weakness will be exploited to achieve a certain impact, but a low likelihood that it will be exploited to achieve a different impact.<table width="98%"><tbody><tr><th width="135px">Impact</th><th>Details</th></tr><tr><td>Scope: Access Control<p>A user can access restricted functionality and/or sensitive information that may include administrative functionality and user accounts.</p></td></tr></tbody></table></div><p>Potential Mitigations</p><div><table width="98%"><tbody><tr><th>Phase(s)</th><th>Mitigation</th></tr><tr><td></td><td><p>Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.</p></td></tr><tr><td></td><td><p>Strategy: <i>Environment Hardening</i></p><p>Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [<a href="#REF-76_266">REF-76</a>]. If possible, create isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way, a successful attack will not immediately give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as the database administrator, especially in day-to-day operations.</p></td></tr></tbody></table></div><p>Relationships</p><p>This table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.</p><p>Modes Of Introduction</p><div>The different Modes of Introduction provide information about how and when this weakness may be introduced. The Phase identifies a point in the life cycle at which introduction may occur, while the Note provides a typical scenario related to introduction during the given phase.<table width="98%"><tbody><tr><th width="110px">Phase</th><th>Note</th></tr><tr><td width="100%">REALIZATION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.</td></tr></tbody></table></div><p>Applicable Platforms</p>This listing shows possible areas for which the given weakness could appear. These may be for specific named Languages, Operating Systems, Architectures, Paradigms, Technologies, or a class of such platforms. The platform is listed along with how frequently the given weakness appears for that instance.<p>Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)</p><p>Demonstrative Examples</p><div><br><p>The following example demonstrates the weakness.</p><p>(bad code)</p><p>Example Language: C</p><p>seteuid(0);<br><i>/* do some stuff */</i><br><br>seteuid(getuid());</p><br><br><p>The following example demonstrates the weakness.</p><p>(bad code)</p><p>Example Language: Java</p>public Object run() {<p><i>// privileged code goes here, for example:</i><br>System.loadLibrary("awt");<br>return null;<br><i>// nothing to return</i><br></p>}<br><br><p>This application sends a special intent with a flag that allows the receiving application to read a data file for backup purposes.</p><p>(bad code)</p><p>Example Language: Java</p><p>Intent intent = new Intent();<br>intent.setAction("com.example.BackupUserData");<br>intent.setData(file_uri);<br>intent.addFlags(FLAG_GRANT_READ_URI_PERMISSION);<br>sendBroadcast(intent);</p><p>(attack code)</p><p>Example Language: Java</p><div>@Override<br>public void onReceive(Context context, Intent intent) {<p>Uri userData = intent.getData();<br>stealUserData(userData);</p>}</div><p>Any malicious application can register to receive this intent. Because of the FLAG_GRANT_READ_URI_PERMISSION included with the intent, the malicious receiver code can read the user's data.</p><br><br></div><p>Selected Observed Examples</p><p><i>Note: this is a curated list of examples for users to understand the variety of ways in which this weakness can be introduced. It is not a complete list of all CVEs that are related to this CWE entry.</i></p><div><table width="98%"><tbody><tr><th>Reference</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td><p><a href="https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-1999-1193">CVE-1999-1193</a></p></td><td><p>untrusted user placed in unix "wheel" group</p></td></tr><tr><td><p><a href="https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2005-2741">CVE-2005-2741</a></p></td><td><p>Product allows users to grant themselves certain rights that can be used to escalate privileges.</p></td></tr><tr><td><p><a href="https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2005-2496">CVE-2005-2496</a></p></td><td><p>Product uses group ID of a user instead of the group, causing it to run with different privileges. This is resultant from some other unknown issue.</p></td></tr><tr><td><p><a href="https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2004-0274">CVE-2004-0274</a></p></td><td><p>Product mistakenly assigns a particular status to an entity, leading to increased privileges.</p></td></tr></tbody></table></div><p>Weakness Ordinalities</p><div><table width="98%"><tbody><tr><th>Ordinality</th><th width="100%">Description</th></tr><tr><td><p>Resultant</p></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table></div><p>Affected Resources</p><div><ul><li>System Process</li></ul></div><p>Memberships</p><div>This MemberOf Relationships table shows additional CWE Categories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness fits within the context of external information sources.<div><table width="98%"><tbody><tr><th>Nature</th><th>Type</th><th>ID</th><th>Name</th></tr></tbody><tbody><tr><td>MemberOf</td><td align="center">Category - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic.</td><td><a href="https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/723.html">723</a></td><td>OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A2 - Broken Access Control</td></tr><tr><td>MemberOf</td><td align="center">Category - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic.</td><td><a href="https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/859.html">859</a></td><td>The CERT Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 16 - Platform Security (SEC)</td></tr><tr><td>MemberOf</td><td align="center">View - a subset of CWE entries that provides a way of examining CWE content. The two main view structures are Slices (flat lists) and Graphs (containing relationships between entries).</td><td><a href="https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/884.html">884</a></td><td>CWE Cross-section</td></tr><tr><td>MemberOf</td><td align="center">Category - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic.</td><td><a href="https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/901.html">901</a></td><td>SFP Primary Cluster: Privilege</td></tr><tr><td>MemberOf</td><td align="center">Category - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic.</td><td><a href="https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1149.html">1149</a></td><td>SEI CERT Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 15. Platform Security (SEC)</td></tr><tr><td>MemberOf</td><td align="center">Category - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic.</td><td><a href="https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1348.html">1348</a></td><td>OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design</td></tr><tr><td>MemberOf</td><td align="center">Category - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic.</td><td><a href="https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1396.html">1396</a></td><td>Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control</td></tr><tr><td>MemberOf</td><td align="center">Category - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic.</td><td><a href="https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1441.html">1441</a></td><td>OWASP Top Ten 2025 Category A06:2025 - Insecure Design</td></tr></tbody></table></div></div><p>Vulnerability Mapping Notes</p><div><table width="98%"><tbody><tr><td></td><td><b>ALLOWED</b><p>(this CWE ID may be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)</p></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Acceptable-Use</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of vulnerabilities.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a lower-level Base/Variant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.</td></tr></tbody></table></div><p>References</p><div><table width="98%"><tbody><tr><td>[REF-76]</td><td>Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.<br>< <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20211209014121/https://www.cisa.gov/uscert/bsi/articles/knowledge/principles/least-privilege">https://web.archive.org/web/20211209014121/https://www.cisa.gov/uscert/bsi/articles/knowledge/principles/least-privilege</a> >. (<i>URL validated: 2023-04-07</i>)</td></tr></tbody></table></div><p>Content History</p><div><table width="98%"><thead><tr><th colspan="3">Submissions</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><th>Submission Date</th><th>Submitter</th><th>Organization</th></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2006-07-19<br>(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)</td><td>PLOVER</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"></td></tr></tbody><thead><tr><th colspan="3">Modifications</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><th>Modification Date</th><th>Modifier</th><th>Organization</th></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2025-12-11<br>(CWE 4.19, 2025-12-11)</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Relationships</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2023-06-29</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Mapping_Notes</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2023-04-27</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated References, Relationships, Time_of_Introduction</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2022-10-13</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated References</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2021-10-28</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Relationships</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2021-03-15</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Demonstrative_Examples</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2020-02-24</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Relationships</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2019-01-03</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Relationships, Taxonomy_Mappings</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2017-11-08</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Causal_Nature, Modes_of_Introduction, References, Relationships</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2014-02-18</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Applicable_Platforms, Demonstrative_Examples</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2012-10-30</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Potential_Mitigations, References</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2012-05-11</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Common_Consequences, Demonstrative_Examples, Relationships, Taxonomy_Mappings</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2011-06-01</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Common_Consequences, Relationships, Taxonomy_Mappings</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2010-06-21</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Potential_Mitigations</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2009-12-28</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Potential_Mitigations</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2009-03-10</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Relationships</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2008-09-08</td><td>CWE Content Team</td><td>MITRE</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Description, Relationships, Taxonomy_Mappings, Weakness_Ordinalities</i></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">2008-07-01</td><td>Eric Dalci</td><td>Cigital</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><i>updated Time_of_Introduction</i></td></tr></tbody></table></div></td></tr></tbody></table>